hello everyone and welcome to the the hello everyone and welcome to the last Stellar developer meeting this year and on the agenda for today we have two things we have Jay from the the core engineering team they'll talk about some new additions in protocol 22 and then he is going to give some demos so I will invite Jay to join me here on stage hello hello can you hear me yeah I can hear you okay great hi everyone I'm I'm Jay core developer today I'm going to walk you through the building blocks that we introduced in protocal 22 which went live U this month a couple weeks ago specifically around the The cryptographic Primitives namely bs2 381
so yeah so the cap for bs2 3d1 is cap 59 which was introduced I would say three or four months ago but today I'm going to focus on just like a high level overview of what you can do with different types of functions introduce as well as the the functions introduce as well as the SDK interface and I'm also going to show a couple examples simple ones to illustrate how you can make use of these core functionality today to build useful applications so let's get started first let me share my [Music] screen okay so yeah yeah walking through u a few things
so first just briefly take you through the cap since this is not a protocol meeting I'll just be really brief and not spend any time explaining the details and nuances you can read more about them so yes so this cap cap 59 is about so yes so this cap 59 is about bs12 bs12 381 so the brs1 123 3d1 is a new 381 so the brs1 123 3d1 is a new curve that that's added so the well it's not a new it's not one curve it's rather like a family of Curves U there's namely the the G1 which Curves U there's namely the G1 which is the base field and then the G2 which is the extension field and what's what's useful about this curve what's useful about this curve specifically is that you can specifically is that you can compute pairings which is taking a point in G1 pointing G2 repair them
and then it Maps into a different point in a higher higher degree space in a higher degree space so at a high level what why is this useful you might ask so just like cryptography we wanted to compute like we want to do computations and we want we don't want to do them in a a want we don't want to do them in a plain manners right just like ecdsa you you utilize the properties of eliptic curve and then the particularly the discrete logarithmic problem is is hard discrete logarithmic problem is hard to solve meaning that if you multiply a point a certain times on the curve and get a different curve it's really hard to invert that process to get the number that you multiplied with which makes it useful for private key and public key so same principle here B2 C1 is just eliptic curve and it can
it can used it can be used for signatures which I we show in our first example later on but it's also it can do a lot more so yeah so the high level G of this is that using the new curve you can using the new curve you can do encrypted computation that follows certain rules and these are the basic building blocks which people use to build more advanced and interesting applications such as CK knock all right so yeah so here are the new host functions introduced I think the total is like 12 if I remember correctly there's a yeah the basic ones Point addition G1 Point Point multip G1 Point multip multiplication with a constant MSM which is basically a scaler like a
vector multiplication which is yeah just multiplying a vector of number by a vector of points and then add them up so and then so these ones the hash to curve in map to curve these ones are if you use if you want to use a digital signature scheme like if you want to map a random message onto the curve and and and map to a point the curve and and map to a point perform the cryptographic functions on it you first have to take that message and you have to Hash it onto the curve internally how it works very briefly is that it there's a h this hash function sh 256 and then you also provide something called a DST which is the domain separate Separation The Domain separation tag which is just a tag that you append to every message such that your applications domain
separate from say like ethereum's application like so it's always good to have a unique DST for every application to avoid some kind of intricate attack so the basically how it works is that it just hashes like repeatedly hashes that message into a certain lens which corresponds to the the length of the the point on the length of the point on the curve and then it checks if that point is on the Curve and then if not it it add one and repeat and then once it is on the curve then it multiplies by some co-actor to send this curve to the correct subgroup so this is just getting a little bit into more detail is that these curves obviously they are Prime like they Prime field so the the it's the numbers Prime field so the it's the numbers on this curve are are modulus of a on this curve are modulus of a large Prime in this case the prime
number is 381 bits long thus the name U BR is 12 381 and the subgroup is is different 381 and the subgroup is different subgroup is the number of points that we pick or like the the definition that we pick or like the definition of the curve pick such that these operations are defined so the subgroup is a subset of all available points on the BS 81 curve and then the for this particular case the subgroup size is 256 bit so which is very convenient to be represented as a big U 256 and so yeah some of the host functions here actually if you look at they're called f which basically takes some U 256 vales and then like add them together like these numbers represent the the scalar in the
represent the scalar in the definition of of this particular curve definition of this particular curve where the the modulus of the scaler where the modulus of the scaler equals the subgroup size so this is useful for manipulating the points like multiplying them and then making sure that this scaler is actually like represented by the points on the curve like yeah so we just covered hash to curve and then yeah then we repeat for G2 which is different group of points same thing here map to G map map same thing here map to G map to G2 hash to G2 and then the important one or I guess the most interesting one that the applications built off of is the pairing so
so what the parent does is I'm I'm so what the parent does is I'm going to borrow some other slides here so this is a this is just like a onepage explanation for BL signature which will cover in a bit in our example and here is just the definition of a pairing which takes a point in the first group point on the second group pair them up and send it to a different group the interesting about the paing is that it is bilinear which means that it is linear with respect to both the first U term as well as the second term so so here you see pairing of P plus s is equal to pairing of P times pairing of s and same same here on the pairing of s and same here on the second term Q Plus R you can pair them separately and multiply together so the reason here is a multiplication
again this is just some details is that because the paing result is sent to like a higher degree the 12th degree that's part of the name BR is 12 so we need to get to the 12th degree extension field which is a multiplic multiplicative Group which means you can perform like multiplications instead of a additive Group which is our G1 and G2 so just some details but important fact is that you can these relationships can hold and then by the extension of it if you have a u on the left side if you have a p repeated eight times this is essentially multiplying the result eight times and then which is equivalent to taking the this paring result the plain par result of p and Q and exponent take the exponent a and then you can
move this a either you know on the left side or on the right side or move it out it doesn't matter so the it doesn't matter so the pairing this pair relationship can be quite useful as we see in the example of both signature as well as a SN verification okay so I think that goes over well we just covered the FR which is the field this is just a this is just a very simple like modular arithmetics but with a very specific module like addition subtraction subtraction multiplication power inversion and that's that's all so now let's look at the SDK so how does this look inside the SDK which is what you'll be interfacing with is so if you look at
the SD there's a it sits inside the crypto library and then there's a brst 381 module so the all the functions are exposed inside the BRS 12 381 module so the few additional functions like checking if a point is in the checking if a point is in the subgroup but overall there is a pretty much one to one correspondence between the host function and the SDK function oh and also one interesting to notice is there's a two addition method one is just a plain addition and then the other one is the checked Edition so so the reason for that is Edition so the reason for that is so remember what I said earlier was the BL 12 381 points are defined over a particular subgroup but but but just the the addition operation
but just the addition operation can perform on any point on the curve doesn't have to belong to the subgroup but in order for that addition to be useful for our pairings and for our other like a SN operation like they have to be in the subgroup but the subgroup check is is is kind of subgroup check is is kind of expensive so if you have a contract which does like a number of these additions and only you want to make sure the end result is on the subgroup then you can use the plain add function which is not taking yeah which is not taking the the check it's just point the check it's just point doing the addition whereas if you wanted to be safe and then you wanted to use the the checked ad which performs the the the subgroup check in in the end
modifcation yeah these are all very standard yeah repeat for G2 parent check oh yeah okay one thing about the parent check here like I mentioned earlier in this equation this is a parent check it's check checking a pairing of two points equals some relationship of pairing like with a either like a a result of a pairing either like a result of a pairing multiplied by each other or like additional terms but the the pairing additional terms but the pairing result itself is is a point on a result itself is a point on a higher degree in a higher degree extension F12 and then to compute that F12 is very expensive so the parent check is intended such that we we can check is intended such that we can perform multiple pairings together
and then check that this the end result equals to one which means this pairing returns true or false if it satisfies true otherwise it's false the the benefit of that is that these intermediate result they can be they can be performed on a a much lower degree be performed on a much lower degree which is much more efficient and only at the very end do you have to or you don't have to but like internally the algorithm will send that to the the 12's order and then do the comparison check with the the U the comparison check with the U the number one in 12 extension so so the number one in 12 extension so the reason for that is in most of the applications either in signature checking or in in SN verification you checking or in SN verification you only need to do pairing to to check only need to do pairing to check certain relation hold like in a SN for
example you are checking that your polinomial contains a certain structure by that you are Computing some some polinomial relations and then you're checking that the left side equals right right right hand side this relation hold so you you in in now the point you hold so you in now the point you actually need that 12 degree extension Point all you have to do is to make sure the left side equal right side so so far the left side equal right side so far I haven't heard of any application that specifically needs the result of the pairing so that's why we went with this design of just passing a vector of G1 Vector of G2 perform pairwise Che pairing and then check the result in the end if it's equal than equal to one then return true otherwise return false so it's just a it's other line mass is the same but
just you know something to be be just you know something to be aware like it's it's not taking a single aware like it's not taking a single point pair with a single point but taking a vector of pair with a vector and then these ones we covered okay so I think that's it for the building block oh it took 20 minutes it's probably should probably speed up a little huh okay so let's talk about the the useful okay so let's talk about the useful applications U first first of all the applications U first of all the BRS signatures so I think I went through this in one of the protocol meeting earlier so I just keep it a little more brief because the other ones I think more interesting so the BR signature the way it works I'm trying to find the paragraph that does explanation so yeah so so here there's a explanation so yeah so here there's a there's some some kind of secret key and there's some kind of secret key and then oh sorry this is a public key
okay so the the public key is some okay so the public key is some number times the point the generator point and then the the signature is point and then the signature is the public key times hash of the message and by the parent property if you just if you do the the public key and the if you do the public key and the hash of the message and then you move the the Scala part around in the end you just you get a a check end you just you get a a check which is the the generator so the the which is the generator so the pairing of the public key and the pairing of the public key and the hash of message equals the the pairing hash of message equals the pairing of the the generator and then the the of the generator and then the the signature so yeah if you it's fairly straightforward the public key here sorry I don't know why you call PK it's actually just a secret key here you can move it it appears on the left in the beginning
but you can move it on the right and then this becomes the the the signature then this becomes the the signature so the left and right must hold if this signature is valid and the good thing about it is that if you have the same message and then multiple public Keys signing the message then you can essentially just aggregate all the signatures together and aggregate all the Public Public Keys together do the Public Keys together do this off chain and all you have to do is just to verify one pairing then you can you know verify potentially hundreds of signatures all at once and this is only this is if the messages are same but if the message are unique then for every message like M number message there will be like M plus one parent checks so that's the general idea of the UHS signature so let's see the example so so we have
here hope you can see the code here so this one example is already in the s bomb example repo you can look at it today I try to keep it documented I think it's fairly straightforward in the it's a pretty much as increment contract but the increment is requires an O which is a for every time you increment it will check called check or and then check some the signature payload and the and then the public key so inside here is basically just loading loading the basically just loading the aggregate public key loading your domain separation tag and then construct the vector and call pairing that's all that is and then you can look at the test which is doing most of the setups setups here it contains 10 pairs of signatures
applying the aggregation and signature aggregation and then here just runs the test which invokes the check all with some random payload if I run that yeah the signature signature passes and then it dumps out the the budget and then it dumps out the budget and then yeah so this simple operation is like 31 31 million CPU instructions so yeah remember this is 10 10 different yeah remember this is 10 different signatures on the same payload so 31 31 million to verify 10 signature you can do also more if they more so that's a very brief walk through of the the V signature so through of the V signature so now I want to go go and do something now I want to go and do something new and the potentially interesting which is the the cross 16 verifier so in
which is the cross 16 verifier so in order to show that we have the building block to build real ZK applications I went and generated a very simple simple proof and then Ed a very simple impementation of the grass 16 verifier to verify that proof and I want to walk you through it so I don't know if we have enough time for me to actually actually so do do we have time how much so do we have time how much time we have yeah yeah yeah take the time we have yeah yeah take the time you need yeah okay yeah because I I time you need yeah okay yeah because I do want to just walk you through the steps that that's required to to steps that that's required to generate the the proof and and and see generate the proof and and see see it in action because a lot of a lot of this is is looks like magic when you of this is looks like magic when you first run it like just dump dumped a
bunch of things so okay so here don't know if you can see the link here but I'm basically using circum U circum doio if you just search for it at the installation the getting started guy so circum is a tool so circum and snjs is a pair of tools one is for defining the circuit which is a arithmetic relation of what you're trying to compute and then snjs is a tool that allows you to take in the circuit and and do all kinds of circuit and do all kinds of computations and generate the proof and also verify the proof so what we're doing is we're going to just follow this exact guide here generate Define the circuit do all the setup necessary generate the proof and then once we have the proof we will
write our own contract to verify it in soron instead of verified in snjs okay so let's see okay going to make this just screen all right hope you can see my both of my screens so so I did little bit of screens so I did little bit of preparation so here's a brand new folder I have these two files these are the exact instructions here it tells you to copy the input copy the circle I just did in advents so we don't have to go through that so the first thing it wants you to do is to install these dependencies which I already did so we can skip that and the second one is that
it tells you to Define the circuit in the circum language the the circle is in the circum language the circle is really simple it's the simplest you can get basically multiplying two numbers and then output the the numbers and then output the result of the multiplication however the interesting part is that these inputs A and B are private inputs so in the end your proof will prove that this computation was done correctly without revealing What A and B is so only the only public output will be C the the number the result of the multiplication so what we did multiplication so what we did here is just copy this exact program into this multiplier
file and then the next one compiling the circuit so yeah so scales gives you the the Circ scales gives you the Circ instructions how to do that so this is basically just writing this circuit in in in some formats and so that it can can be understood by the other tools tools but there's one thing we have to change on this command which is BRS 12381 so the reason that we need to specify this is the the circuit specify this is the circuit compilation needs to know the range of like the the the range of prime of like the the range of prime number so it needs to take the prime number the 3 381 one bit number associated with with our curve right
associated with our curve right this B 12 31 and use that as a as as a this B 12 31 and use that as a curve to generate this circuit otherwise it I don't know what happens although I haven't tried but you should haven't tried but you should do that so once you do that it will generate the multiplier in this R1 CS format and then some other stuff so the R1 CS is a rank one constraint system why is it called so so think of any why is it called so think of any complex computation like a a know a squ complex computation like a know a squ * Bal C something like that you can always break it down into simpler computation by creating intermediate Gates and then assigning intermediate gates to you know more intermediate and then like in the end you you just then like in the end you just compute two things to an output so so the the the process of R1 CS is so the the process of R1 CS is just comp deconstruct a complex
computation in something into something simple as a left left hand side times simple as a left hand side times right hand side equals an output whereas both left hand side right hand side and output are rank one which means the highest polinomial degree is one so you can have like a plus b but not a square so that's what it is okay once you do that the next step is to compute the witness so so at step is to compute the witness so at this point we have the circuit which is our structure of our computation but in order to to compute it like in order to compute it like in order to to be verifiable we have to comput it with some inputs and then generate the proofs and all that so here is just defining the the input I I did did here defining the input I did here which is exactly what it's using so it Tak Tak 3 * 11 so the output will be 33
but we don't we won't know about this three and 11 so once we have that we will enter the the JS Library okay it's empty right it's generate yeah some other AO generated code to compute stuff so what we do here is actually copy this one but I'll input this some okay so this one is just generating the the witnesses and then you can also do this with C++ and then once you do that you have the the witness file I don't think we can load it yet but it's just a yeah the the witness is just the
yeah the witness is just the input basically like I think the witness is it private or just probably I I don't I forgot the or just probably I don't I forgot the exact terminology but it's possible that the witness is just a public output U so so so only the C part 33 is contained in the witness okay now comes to the proving part so yeah so so here here there's a part so yeah so here there's a bunch of commands if you do it for the first time it will look fairly weird because it's telling you to generate a power to ceremony so what what it a power to ceremony so what it really is is so in order to what it really is so in order to yeah so in order to compute the proof so okay so remember we have the R1 CS file and then the R1 CS is just a system with equations of different nodes and then every equation is just a simple
rank one left right equals output multiplication and and and so the the multiplication and and so the next step in order to make that into some kind of provable structure is to convert this into a qap which is a qu quadratic arithmetic program what it does is to on each side the left right and output it fits a number of polinomial that evaluate to at certain points so the number of equations is is a number of constraints equations is a number of constraints and at each constraint the polinomial will evaluate at a different points so to keep them separate and then a pol polinomial is the aggregation of smaller Pol polinomial defined over each unique node so what you think in node so what you think in the and is just a instead of left left times right
a instead of left times right equals output you have a left side polinomial of some degree degree polinomial of some degree which which matches the number of constraints and same for right hand side and the opposite side and and in order to to verify this and in order to verify this polinomial computed correctly we so here here's a key here here's a key concept U is in order to verify the computational polinomial all you have to do is to verify the computation of a polinomial at a single random Point so this may sound little you know counterintuitive in the beginning but if you have polinomial of degree two then there can be only two roots and then if you have two polinomial of degree two you you subtract them degree two you subtract them together it can still only have two Roots so which means that it can the two polinomial can only be identical at n
number of points where n being the degree of the polinomial so even if we have you know hundreds thousands of constraints in our circuit the space the total space of our SN the total space of our SN the the prime modulus or rather the subgroup is 200 200 56 bits long so it is is 200 56 bits long so it is impossible for any Collision to happen in in real chance so this this a happen in real chance so this a key concept of how to like how to convert this polinomial into a u into a non interactive check which is you just need to make sure that it's evaluated at a truly random value and then this the verifier or anyone can just take the output of that and then make sure and then check the verification that the the polinomial equality holds with pairing what we introduce here so this is what it does so so the power of
this is what it does so the power of to here the the long story short is just to here the long story short is just the the steps necessary to generate that random point at which the polinomial are evaluated that's really what it is so I'm going to spe speed around through these steps here it's not really that interesting there's a lot of output you can look at it later sorry B 12 31 that's the first step contribute to ceremony some random text it's going to compute set up some ceremony and then the gr 16 requires a a public a Universal setup which is for the whole like you have to do once
and then the per Circle specific setup so that's the second step here
so this was the last command prepare phase two and then yeah just set up the circle specific stuff okay and then contribute to the another text okay so now we have the the the proving key and the verification key set up for this circuit and the next step is to generate the proof okay so in the end we have this proof
yeah which which contains ter yeah which contains ter terms which is like encrypted evaluation of polinomial at some point then there should also be the public public. Json do we get that oh I think I sent it to the previous folder but yeah the public should just have one value here which is 33 so to verify verify which is 33 so to verify a proof to so what what we need to do is a proof to so what we need to do is to write a a to write a contract this here it makes really easy for you to do so there's a step where you can call to generate a ethereum u solidity contract for verifying verifying and then
four yeah okay if we just look at it here yeah so the cont itself is it's not that interesting I'm not familiar too much with solidity but most of the logic here is just packing bits into memories and then in the end it's called this caring on you know a bunch of terms so we can easily convert that into a Sor Bond and the output of you know our contract is just this much it it contract is just this much it verifies the proof takes a verification key which is some like G1 G2 points and then approve which contains also points in G1 G2 public signal in this case just one which is 33 encoded into the scale a field number and then aggregate the input
and then yeah construct the back to check paing and that's really it and then I did I copied all of the the then I did I copied all of the outputs it's a it will be a different one than what we gener earlier because there an entropy I I because of the there an entropy I because of the random randomness but but I did this random randomness but I did this earlier I just copied all these the the pro the proof part and the ver if ification key part this is proof and then this is the VK and then construct the the key construct the proof and then just call the verify proof and assert that this result must be true because the we've putting you know the output at 33 so which is matches our public output so let's run this test okay so it finished and you can see that this verifying the ZK proof takes around 30 like 41 million CPU
instructions it performs four parent checks per some addition multiplication in G1 space so if you have more public input then there will be more multiplication and additions here but the pairing is only there's only four pairing so the total CPU is pairing so the total CPU is roughly this this amount yeah I think roughly this amount yeah I think that's it sorry for taking longer than expected but this is it and hopefully that you can see that this is you know exciting stuff that you can use to build DK application today you may ask what's the use of it you know the real interesting part is is in the circuit interesting part is in the circuit part so instead of proving you know a b and c you can write a much interesting one like you know proving hash like comput computation of a hash
or or knowing a pass in a Merle tree which is like proof of possession or something like that so all the Innovations you know a lot of it can can Innovations you know a lot of it can happen on the Contra side which is what you guys you know are that that stuff you guys you know are that stuff so yeah really looking forward to seeing what comes out of it and yeah let me know if you have questions we also have a Discord threat feel free to post it there and I'll hand it over to cin great thank you so much this was really good I think the examples and and walking through the examples and walking through the code really made it U easier to understand and and see see potential understand and see potential with so I know we have one question let me see Elliot was asking a question earlier about if the host functions are all that's needed for CK snarks on Stellar or if there's still additional functionality that's missing I don't know if you have an answer for that yeah
to to verify the SN it's all we need okay so there there are some some quoes okay so there are some quoes in SDK which we we we build it like in in SDK which we we build it like in the like we provide the the the most the like we provide the the most generic like interface to expose this for but there's a little bit corks like you like for example ear U see in order to try to store that I have to store the Bice instead of the G1 G2 but that's the fix and also to compute the negation of a point you have to do it on the contract side but yeah in terms of verification all the tools are there but there may be some ux gap which I'm discovering and should be fixing soon and also with your guys help we will be able to make it better yeah but in terms of verification that's it but in terms of pro proving so as you see proving has to happen offchain and then that's quite elaborate toour set
and also like different Suites of you know there's different Frameworks of U like Marin you know gr 16 Plank and and all the other other tools that you and all the other tools that you can use so we haven't provide any of that and we don't endorse any of it I was just using the snjs as a example because that's one of the you know most well known and then yeah that also the the public ceremony aspect yeah we don't have it on chain so but yeah you can verify it but not there's no proving tour CH available at the moment okay great any any other moment okay great any other questions feel free to put them in the chat I don't think that's the case we are kind of running out of time so
I I will save the the walk through of will save the walk through of quick start for the next meeting but yeah if there's no other questions then I think U we will stop it right here let's see yeah yeah okay well thank you Jay thank you for for your presentation it was really good I think going really good I think going forward when we add new forward when we add new functionality in in protocol when we functionality in protocol when we upgrade the network I think it's it's upgrade the network I think it's relevant to to maybe spend some time in relevant to maybe spend some time in in these meetings to to go over some of in these meetings to go over some of the new new functionality and some of the the things we can do as a developer so yeah look forward to to more of so yeah look forward to more of this kind of presentations but thank you J Jay and thank you for everyone who joined have a good holiday thank you you joined have a good holiday thank you guys happy holiday bye